>> Woodruff: SENATORS SCRAMBLE
TO SAVE EXPIRING PARTS OF THE
PATRIOT ACT, AT THE CENTER OF
THE DEBATE IS WHETHER TO CHANGE
THE SCOPE OF THE GOVERNMENT'S
SURVEILLANCE POWERS.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, WHY MORE SENIORS ARE
GOING HUNGRY.
ONCE-PROSPEROUS AMERICANS NOW
STRUGGLE TO PUT FOOD ON THE
TABLE
>> WE WERE ON OUR HANDS AND
KNEES, PRACTICALLY, LET'S PUT IT
THAT WAY, AND YOU OPEN UP THE
CLOSET AND ALL WE HAD WAS
COFFEE.
SO, WE MADE IT.
AND THAT'S WHAT WE HAD.
>> Woodruff: IT'S FRIDAY, MARK
SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON ARE
HERE, TO ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
AND:
AND CREATING A SAFE HAVEN FOR
HOMELESS TRANSGENDERED YOUTH WHO
HAVE NOWHERE ELSE TO GO.
>> IF SOMEONE TRIES TO GO TO A
FEMALE SHELTER AS A TRANS WOMAN
THEY LITERALLY TELL YOU YOU
CAN'T SLEEP THERE BECAUSE YOU'RE
NOT FEMALE.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S "PBS NEWSHOUR."
>> Woodruff: THE SENATE LABORED
AGAINST THE CLOCK THIS EVENING
TO PUSH THROUGH PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S "FAST-TRACK"
LEGISLATION.
IT WOULD LET CONGRESS APPROVE OR
REJECT TRADE AGREEMENTS, BUT NOT
AMEND THEM.
SUPPORTERS, AND PRESIDENT OBAMA,
WORKED THROUGH THE DAY TO ROUND
UP VOTES BEFORE THE MEMORIAL DAY
RECESS.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT TODAY
RELEASED NEARLY 300 E-MAILS FROM
THEN-SECRETARY HILLARY CLINTON,
ON THE 2012 ATTACK IN BENGHAZI,
LIBYA.
THE F.B.I. ASKED THAT PARTS OF
ONE BE LABELED "SECRET" AND
WITHHELD.
IT WAS UNCLASSIFIED WHEN CLINTON
RECEIVED IT IN NOVEMBER OF THAT
YEAR, ON HER PRIVATE E-MAIL
SERVER.
AT A PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN EVENT
IN NEW HAMPSHIRE TODAY, SHE SAID
THERE WAS NO SECURITY BREACH.
>> I'M AWARE THAT THE FBI HAS
ASKED THAT A PORTION OF ONE
EMAIL BE HELD BACK.
THAT HAPPENS IN PROCESS OF
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT
RESPONSES.
BUT THAT DOESN'T CHANGE THE FACT
THAT ALL OF THE INFORMATION IN
THE EMAILS WAS HANDLED
APPROPRIATELY.
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. AMBASSADOR
AND THREE OTHER AMERICANS WERE
KILLED IN THE BENGHAZI ATTACK IN
SEPTEMBER OF 2012.
A GUN BATTLE ERUPTED IN WESTERN
MEXICO TODAY BETWEEN POLICE AND
DRUG GANG MEMBERS, AND WHEN IT
WAS OVER, AT LEAST 40 PEOPLE
WERE DEAD.
THE SHOOTING BROKE OUT NEAR THE
BORDER WITH JALISCO STATE.
THE AREA IS THE BASE FOR THE NEW
GENERATION DRUG CARTEL.
THE GANG HAS KILLED AT LEAST 20
POLICE SINCE MARCH.
IN SYRIA, THERE'S WORD THAT
ISLAMIC STATE FIGHTERS HAVE
LAUNCHED A BLOODY PURGE IN
PALMYRA.
THE MILITANTS SEIZED THE ANCIENT
CITY THIS WEEK, AND HUMAN RIGHTS
ACTIVISTS REPORT THEY'VE KILLED
UP TO 280 SOLDIERS AND
GOVERNMENT SUPPORTERS SINCE
THEN.
JONATHAN RUGMAN OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS, REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THE LIONS ARE
ADVANCING THE PIGS ARE
RETREATING SAYS THIS JIHADIST
FIGHTER NEAR THE RUINS OF
PALMIRA.
INSIDE THIS GAS PUMPING STATION
THE MEN OF SO CALLED ISLAMIC
STATE HAVE FOUND ABANDONED
WEAPONS, AND A POSTER OF SYRIA'S
PRESIDENT WHOSE ARMY WAS ROUTED
AND OVERRUN.
THESE ARE THE GROUP'S PICTURES
OF THE CITY NEXT TO THE RUINS.
THE UN SAYS SOME 70 000 SYRIANS
HAVE FLED.
BUT IN THE CITY CENTER IS
FIGHTERS HAVE FILMED THEMSELVES
TRYING TO WHIP UP A CLEARLY
FRIGHTENED CROWD.
DESPITE THIS DISPLAY OF
AFFECTION I.S. HAS BEATEN,
EXECUTED AND DECAPITATED
PRISONERS HERE.
BUT THESE PICTURES ARE TOO
GRAPHIC TO SHOW.
YET THE FATE OF THE RUINS AT THE
HANDS OF THESE MEN COULD BENEFIT
PRESIDENT ASSAD.
BECAUSE THE BARBARIANS ARE QUITE
LITERALLY AT THE GATES NOW AND
SYRIA'S LEADER HAS ALWAYS ARGUED
HE IS A FAR BETTER ALTERNATIVE.
>> Woodruff: ISIS ALSO CLAIMED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR A SUICIDE
BOMBING TODAY AT A SHIITE MOSQUE
IN SAUDI ARABIA.
AT LEAST 20 PEOPLE WERE KILLED
AND 50 OTHERS WOUNDED.
IT HAPPENED IN THE EASTERN
PROVINCE OF AL-QATIF.
OFFICIALS SAID THE MOSQUE WAS
PACKED WITH WORSHIPPERS.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN THIS
COUNTRY, THE CALIFORNIA STATE
WATER BOARD AGREED TO VOLUNTARY,
25% CUTS IN WATER USE BY MAJOR
FARMERS, IN THE FACE OF SEVERE
DROUGHT.
FARMERS IN THE SACRAMENTO AND
SAN JOAQUIN RIVER DELTA MADE THE
OFFER TO AVERT MANDATORY CUTS.
THEY ARE AMONG THE MOST SENIOR
WATER RIGHTS HOLDERS IN THE
STATE.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST
MORE THAN 50 POINTS TO CLOSE
NEAR 18,230.
THE NASDAQ WAS DOWN ONE POINT,
AND THE S-AND-P 500 SLIPPED
NEARLY FIVE.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW LOST A
FRACTION OF A PERCENT, THE S-
AND-P GAINED A FRACTION, AND THE
NASDAQ ROSE NEARLY A FULL
PERCENT.
AND IN PARIS, THE EIFFEL TOWER
WAS SHUT DOWN FOR MOST OF THE
DAY, BECAUSE OF A STRIKE OVER
PICKPOCKETS.
NO TICKETS WERE SOLD, AND POLICE
PATROLLED THE AREA, WHILE
TOURISTS REMAINED ON THE
OUTSKIRTS.
TOWER WORRS SKEAID THEY NEED
MORE GUARDS TO SCARE OFF
AGGRESSIVE GANGS OF THIEVES.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE SENATE DEBATES THE SCOPE OF
SURVEILLANCE AND THE FUTURE OF
THE PATRIOT ACT;
IRELAND HOLDS A REFERENDUM VOTE
TO LEGALIZE SAME-SEX MARRIAGE;
OLDER AMERICANS INCREASINGLY
STRUGGLE TO PUT FOOD ON THE
TABLE;
MARK SHIELDS AND MICHAEL GERSON
ON THE WEEK'S NEWS;
SAFE SPACES FOR HOMELESS
TRANSGENDER YOUTH;
AND SOME COMEDIC WISDOM FOR THIS
YEAR'S COLLEGE GRADUATES.
>> Woodruff: WE NOW TURN TO THE
HEATED DEBATE OVER GOVERNMENT
SECURITY AND INDIVIDUAL PRIVACY.
THREE KEY PROVISIONS OF THE
PATRIOT ACT THAT ALLOW FOR
GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE ARE SET
TO EXPIRE SOON, BUT THE U.S.
SENATE IS PLANNING TO BE OUT OF
WASHINGTON NEXT WEEK, LEAVING
LAWMAKERS SCRAMBLING TO FIND
AGREEMENT ON THE CONTROVERSIAL
ISSUE.
>> Woodruff: SENATORS CAME TO
WORK THIS MORNING, CONFRONTING
AN IMPASSE ON SURVEILLANCE, AND
A LOOMING DEADLINE:
>> UNFORTUNATELY, THE CLOCK'S
BEEN RUN OUT.
>> Woodruff: ON JUNE FIRST, THE
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY LOSES
LEGAL AUTHORITY TO COLLECT BULK
PHONE RECORDS, AS KEY PROVISIONS
OF THE "PATRIOT ACT" EXPIRE.
BUT THE SENATE IS LEAVING FOR
THE MEMORIAL DAY RECESS AND
WON'T RETURN UNTIL JUNE FIRST,
LEAVING VERMONT DEMOCRAT PATRICK
LEAHY TO POINT ACROSS THE
CAPITOL.
>> THE HOUSE WORKED VERY HARD ON
THIS.
THEY COMPLETED THEIR WORK AND
THEY LEFT.
THEY'RE NOT COMING BACK UNTIL
AFTER THE SURVEILLANCE
AUTHORITIES ARE SET TO EXPIRE.
AND THE
THEY WILLMY NOT PASS THE EXTENN
EVEN IF THEY'RE IN.
>> THE YEAS ARE 338 AND THE NAYS
ARE 88.
THE BILL IS PZSSED.U
>> Woodruff: THE BILL THAT
PASSED THE HOUSE IS U.S.A.
FREEDOM ACT.
IT REPLACES BULK COLLECTION OF
PHONE RECORDS, WITH CASE-BY-CASE
SEARCHES.
BUT SENATE MAJORITY LEADER MITCH
MCCONNELL IS FIRMLY OPPOSED TO
THAT MEASURE.
>> THE UNTRIED AND AS OF YET
NON-EXISTENT BULK COLLECTION
SYSTEM ENVISIONED UNDER THAT
BILL WOULD BE SLOWER AND MORE
CUMBERSOME THAN THE ONE THAT
CURRENTLY HELPS KEEP US SAFE.
AT WORST, IT MIGHT NOT WORK AT
ALL.
>> Woodruff: MCCONNELL FAVORS A
TWO-MONTH EXTENSION OF THE
PATRIOT ACT, TO BUY TIME FOR A
COMPROMISE.
ANOTHER PROPOSAL CALLS FOR A
SHORTER EXTENSION.
OTHER REPUBLICANS STRONGLY
DISAGREE.
KENTUCKY'S RAND PAUL HELD THE
FLOOR FOR 11 HOURS WEDNESDAY.
>> I WILL NOT LET THE PATRIOT
ACT, THE MOST UNPATRIOTIC OF
ACTS, GO UNCHALLENGED.
>> Woodruff: MANY DEMOCRATS,
INCLUDING MINORITY LEADER HARRY
REID, ARE ALSO DUG IN AGAINST
KEEPING THE PATRIOT ACT ALIVE.
>> THERE'S EFFORTS MADE TO
EXTEND A PROGRAM THAT'S ALREADY
BEEN DECLARED BY THE SECOND
CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
UNITED STATES, ALREADY DECLARED
IS ILLEGAL.
HOW CAN WE EXTEND AN ILLEGAL
ACT?
BUT THAT'S WHAT SOME OF THE TALK
IS FROM THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
AISLE.
>> Woodruff: THIS AFTERNOON,
REPUBLICAN RICHARD BURR OF NORTH
CAROLINA, CHAIRING THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE, OFFERED
YET ANOTHER OPTION: EXTEND THE
PATRIOT ACT, BUT END BULK DATA
COLLECTION AFTER TWO YEARS.
IN THE MEANTIME, THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT HAS ANNOUNCED THE
N.S.A. WILL HAVE TO START
WINDING DOWN PHONE SURVEILLANCE
THIS WEEKEND, TO MEET THE JUNE 1
DEADLINE.
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS, I AM JOINED
BY MIKE DEBONIS WHO IS A
NATIONAL SECURITY REPORTER FOR
THE WASHINGTON POST.
MIKE, WELCOME AGAIN TO THE
"NewsHour".
YOU KNOW, IT'S UNUSUAL TO SEE
NOT ONLY BOTH HOUSES DIVIDED BUT
ONE PARTY SO DIVIDED ON THIS.
WHY IS THIS SO CONTROVERSIAL?
>> THANKS, JUDY.
YOU'RE RIGHT.
IT'S VERY ODD TO HAVE LEADER
MCCONNELL AND SPEAKER BOEHNER SO
FAR APART ON THESE THINGS.
YOU REALLY HAVE A VERY BASIC
PHILOSOPHICAL DIFFERENCE OF
OPINION WHERE LEADER MCCONNELL
BELIEVES THAT THE REFORM BILL
THAT WAS PASSED BY THE HOUSE
LAST WEEK SIMPLY DOESN'T DO
ENOUGH TO PRESERVE THE NATION'S
COUNTERTERRORISM CAPABILITIES,
AND SPEAKER BOEHNER SAYS, YOU
KNOW, THIS IS THE RIGHT BALANCE,
IT STRIKES THE RIGHT BALANCE,
THIS IS WHAT WAS NEGOTIATED WITH
THE ADMINISTRATION, WITH THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, WITH
CIVIL LIBERTARIANS OF BOTH
PARTIES AND WITH FOLKS ON THE
VARIOUS NATIONAL SECURITY
COMMITTEES AND THIS IS WHAT THE
SENATE SHOULD PASS, AND THEY
HAVE NOW LEFT TOWN, AND WHATEVER
THE SENATE DOES FROM THIS POINT,
IF ANYTHING OTHER THAN PASS THE
HOUSE BILL, THERE'S THE VERY
REAL POSSIBILITY THAT THE
AUTHORITY FOR THE SURVEILLANCE
PROGRAM COULD EXPIRE.
>> Woodruff: JUST TO BE CLEAR,
IT'S NOT THE ENTIRE PATRIOT ACT,
IT'S JUST ONE PARTICULAR PART OF
IT THAT HAS THEM SO DIVIDED.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
AND THIS IS THE AUTHORITY THAT
HAS UNDERPINNED THIS BULK
SURVEILLANCE, BULK COLLECTION OF
PHONE RECORDS WHICH IS AWFULLY
CONTROVERSIAL AND ALSO CONTAINS
LANGUAGE THAT ESTABLISHES OTHER
SURVEILLANCE AUTHORITIES
INCLUDING, IN PARTICULAR, THE
SO-CALLED ROVING WIRETAP WHICH
IS USED AGAINST CRIMINAL
SUSPECTS WHO USE MULTIPLE PHONES
AND ROUTINELY CHANGE UP THE WAY
THAT THEY COMMUNICATE, AND THE
F.B.I. DIRECTOR JAMES CONEY SAID
THIS WEEK THAT THAT ALSO IS A
VERY CRUCIAL PIECE OF THEIR
INVESTIGATIVE TOOLBOX THAT THEY
DON'T WANT TO LOSE.
>> Woodruff: WE KNOW THERE WAS
A COURT ORDER HANDED DOWN A FEW
DAYS AGO THAT HAD TO DO WITH ALL
OF THIS.
WHAT EFFECT HAS THAT HAD ON THE
DEBATE THAT'S GOING ON?
>> IT REALLY HASN'T HAD A
PARTICULARLY -- IT HASN'T
MOVED -- IT HASN'T CHANGED A LOT
OF MINDS OR MOVED A LOT OF
OPINIONS.
IT HAS CAUSED PEOPLE ON BOTH
SIDES TO SORT OF DIG IN A LITTLE
DEEPER INTO WHERE THEY WERE
PREVIOUSLY.
THERE IS, HO HOWEVER, A PRACTICL
CONCERN WHICH IS THE COURT THAT
STRUCK DOWN THE BULK
SURVEILLANCE PROGRAM BASED ON
THIS STATUTORY ARGUMENT SAID,
WELL, WE'RE NOT GOING TO DO
ANYTHING RIGHT NOW BECAUSE
CONGRESS IS IN THE MIDDLE OF
DECIDING THIS WITHIN A MATTER OF
DAYS, AND CONGRESS WILL DECIDE
THIS AND WE CAN STAY OUT OF IT.
WELL, IF THIS CAN GETS KICKED
DOWN THE ROAD, WHETHER A WEEK OR
TWO MONTHS, THE COURT COULD COME
BACK AND SAY, WELL, WE HAVE NO
CLARITY HERE, WE STILL BELIEVE
THIS PROGRAM IS ILLEGAL AND WILL
ISSUE AN INJUNCTION TO STOP IT.
THAT IS SALARY POSSIBILITY, AND
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT, YOU KNOW,
THAT IS NOT BEING REALLY
DISCUSSED PARTICULARLY OPENLY
RIGHT NOW BUT IS SOMETHING THAT
IS BEING POINTED OUT BY THE
ADMINISTRATION.
>> Woodruff: AT THIS POINT
IT'S NOT LOOKING AS IT IT WILL
BE RESOLVED QUICKLY.
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT IS SAYING
IT NEEDS TO START WINDING DOWN
THIS BULK COLLECTION OF DATA AS
EARLY AS THIS WEEKEND.
WHAT ARE THE PRACTICAL EFFECTS
OF THAT?
>> WELL, YOU LIKELY HAVE RIGHT
NOW THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HAS
WARRANTS THAT THEY'VE SECURED
AGAINST -- IN VARIOUS
INVESTIGATIONS THAT HAVE TO BE
RENEWED ON A REGULAR BASIS.
BASICALLY, WHAT THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT HAS SAID IS THAT IF
WE DON'T KNOW THAT THIS SHORT IS
GOING TO BE THERE JUNE 1, WE
CAN'T GO TO A JUDGE AND GET A
CARPET TO EXTEND PAST THAT.
WE CAN'T GO NOW STARTING TODAY,
TOMORROW, NEXT WEEK AND TELL A
JUDGE WE WANT A WARRANT, WHETHER
FOR THE BULK PHONE COLLECTION OR
ROVING WIRETAPS WITH OTHER
SURVEILLANCE AUTHORITIES IN THIS
SECTION, THEY CAN'T GO TO A
JUDGE AND SAY PLEASE EXTENT THE
WARRANT.
SO THE EFFECT IS, THEY'RE SAYING
IF NOTHING HAPPENS TODAY YOU CAN
START SEEING PRACTICAL EFFECTS
FOR THE LACK OF ACTION FROM
CONGRESS.
>> Woodruff: MEANING THE
SURVEILLANCE WILL START TO
CHANGE.
WE'RE GOING TO CERTAINLY FOLLOW
THIS AS IT GOES ON TONIGHT AND I
KNOW YOU WILL, MIKE DEBONIS,
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: IN IRELAND, VOTERS
WENT TO THE POLLS TODAY TO
DECIDE WHETHER TO LEGALIZE GAY
MARRIAGE.
IF THE REFERENDUM PASSES, THE
PREDOMINATELY CATHOLIC COUNTRY
WOULD BECOME THE FIRST NATION
EVER TO ACCEPT SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE BY A POPULAR VOTE.
IRISH NEWS SITES ARE REPORTING
HIGHER THAN AVERAGE TURNOUT BOTH
IN CITIES AND RURAL AREAS.
>> FOR THE FIRST TIME, IF THIS
PASSES, IT WILL MEAN AN IRELAND
WHERE PEOPLE WHO HAVE FELT
DISCRIMINATED IN THE PAST, WILL
FEEL INCLUDED AND EQUAL IN OUR
SOCIETY, SO IT WILL BE A BIG
THING.
>> Woodruff: THE VOTE MAY MARK A
SEA CHANGE IN ATTITUDES ON THE
ISLAND.
HOMOSEXUALITY WAS ONLY
DECRIMINALIZED IN THE EARLY
1990'S, AND MANY IN IRELAND
OPPOSE LEGALIZING SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE.
>> IT MEANS THAT FOREVER, A MAN
AND MAN ARE EXACTLY THE SAME IN
LAW AS A WOMAN AND A MAN FOR
FAMILY PURPOSES.
SO IT CREATES A FICTION.
IT CREATES THIS FICTION THAT MEN
HAVE CHILDREN TOGETHER.
THAT'S NOT SENSICAL.
>> Woodruff: HARI SREENIVASAN
HAS MORE ON THIS HISTORIC
REFERENDUM.
>> Sreenivasan: JOINING ME NOW
TO TALK ABOUT WHO VOTED AND WHY,
IS PADRAIC HALPIN, CHIEF IRELAND
CORRESPONDENT FOR THE REUTERS
NEWS SERVICE.
THE FIRST QUESTION I THINK ON A
LOT OF AMERICANS' MIND IS THAT
THE CATHOLIC CHURCH PLAYS A
POWERFUL ROLE IN IRISH SOCIETY
AND POLITICS.
HOW DID THIS GET TO A REFERENDUM
IN IRELAND?
>> WELL, THE CATHOLIC CHURCH
DOESN'T PLAY AS POWERFUL ROLE AS
IT USED TO.
I THINK ITS INFLUENCED HAS
DIMINISHED IN THE LAST TWO
DECADES, IN IRELAND PARTICULAR.
THERE WERE A LOT OF SCANDALS
THAT PLAYED A BIG ROLE IN THE
CHURCH'S POSITION IN SOCIETY
CHANGING AND EVEN IN THE
REFERENDUM CAMPAIGN ITSELF
WHEREAS 20, 30 YEARS AGO ON
ISSUES LIKE DIVORCE OR
CONTRACEPTION, THE CHURCH WOULD
HAVE BEEN SPEAKING OUT QUITE
PUBLICLY AND THEY'RE PLAYING A
LOW KEY ROLE AGAINST THE
REFERENDUM BUT THEY HAVE BEEN
NOTABLE BY HOW QUIET THEY HAVE
BEEN.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW DO THE
DEMOGRAPHICS SHAPE UP FOR THE
VOTE?
RURAL VS. URBAN, YOUNG VS. OLD?
WHAT KIND OF DEMOGRAPHIC
BREAKDOWN ON THOSE SUPPORTING
VS. OPPOSING IT.
>> SUPPORTING THE REFERENDUM,
ALL POLITICAL PARTIES WITH
BEHIND THE REFERENDUM WHICH I
THINK IS MAYBE QUITE UNIQUE
AMONG OTHER COUNTRIES.
IN TERMS OF DIVIDE URBAN-RURAL,
ON SOCIAL ISSUES, WE'VE SEEN
THIS.
THERE'S A REFERENDUM TO MAKE
DIVORCE LEGAL IN IRELAND 20
YEARS AGO AND ONLY FIVE OR 30
CONSTITUENCIES IN IRELAND
SUPPORTED THE REFERENDUM, SO
WE'VE SEEN THAT IN THE PAST AND
TOMORROW WE'LL SEE HOW BIG A
DIVIDE, WILL BE AN INTERESTING
NOTE.
ONE BIG THING IS DIVIDE BETWEEN
YOUNG AND OLD.
CERTAINLY HOW ENERGIZED YOUNG
PEOPLE ARE GETTING OUT TO VOTE.
>> THERE'S A CAMPAIGN TO GET
IRISH EXPATS FROM AROUND THE
WORLD TO VOTE.
EXPLAIN THAT A LITTLE BIT.
>> SURE.
IN IRELAND THERE'S NO POST VOTE
AROUND THE COUNTRY WHERE
IMMIGRANTS WITH VOTE IF THEY
DON'T LIVE IN THE COUNTRY.
IRELAND HAS A BIG EXPAT
COMMUNITY, BIGGER IN THE LAST
FEW YEARS WITH THE ECONOMIC
CRISIS HERE.
A LOT OF PEOPLE HAVE HAD TO
IMMIGRATE TO AUSTRALIA AND
UNITED STATES TO GET JOBS.
IT'S DIFFERENT WHERE A LOT OF
YOUNG PEOPLE HAVE TO COME BACK
TO THEIR LOCAL CONSTITUENCY TO
VOTE.
WE'VE HAD PEOPLE FLY IN FROM
BRITAIN, NEW YORK, CANADA.
I SPOKE TO SOMEONE THIS WEEK WHO
BOUGHT A RETURN TICKET TO
AUSTRALIA.
HE SPENT $1,400 JUST TO GET HOME
TO VOTE.
SOCIAL MEDIA PICKED UP ON IT
TODAY.
THE THINGS THAT HAVE BEEN OF
MOST NOTE IN THE CAMPAIGN IN
RECENT DAYS.
>> HAVE YOU SEEN ANY OTHER
REFERENDUM OR SOCIAL ISSUE
GALVANIZE PEOPLE LIKE THIS IN
IRELAND?
>> I DON'T THINK WE'VE SEEN IT
FOR QUITE SOME TIME.
AS IT STANDS THE POLLS WILL
CLOSE SHORTLY AND THE INDICATION
IS THE TURNOUT COULD BE AROUND
60% OR BOTH.
THE LAST TIME WE SAW THAT WAS 20
YEARS AGO IN THE DIVORCE
REFERENDUM.
ANY REFERENDUM SINCE HASN'T BEEN
AS ANTIVE A TURNOUT.
THAT MIGHT BE ONE INDICATION.
ALSO IT'S DOMINATED THE MEDIA
FOR WEEKS.
THE DEBATE HAS BEEN QUITE
SERIOUS AND HAS BEEN QUITE VOCAL
AND I THINK ON THE STREET OF
DUBLIN THAT'S ALL THE PEOPLE
WITH TALKING ABOUT.
THERE IS BEEN ANTICIPATION, I
THINK, IS THERE TO SAY AND DOING
MORE WILL BE A BIG DAY WHICHEVER
WAY IT GOES.
>> Sreenivasan: IRELAND
COVENANT FOR THE REUTERS NEWS
SERVICE, THANKS FOR JOINING US,
PADRAIC HALPIN.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: IT'S BEEN CALLED
ONE OF THE LONGEST-LASTING AND
CRUELEST EFFECTS OF THE GREAT
RECESSION.
MILLIONS OF SENIOR CITIZENS WHO
WERE CAUGHT UP IN THE ECONOMIC
COLLAPSE, NOW STRUGGLE TO PUT
FOOD ON THE TABLE.
SARAH VARNEY HAS OUR REPORT FROM
NAPLES, FLORIDA.
THE STORY WAS PRODUCED IN
COLLABORATION WITH OUR PARTNER
KAISER HEALTH NEWS.
IT'S NOT EASY TO SPOT IN THE
SPARKLING WATERS, LUXURIOUS
CONDOS AND HIGH-END RE RECREATIN
BUT IN RECENT YEARS DAILY LIFE
FOR MANY SENIORS IN THIS SUN LIT
PARADISE TURNED WEAK.
>> THIS IS MY BIGGEST GRIPE.
WALL MY LIFE I STRUGGLED AND NOW
IN MY '70s I HAD TO STRUGGLE
ALL OVER AGAIN.
IT BOTHERED ME A LOT.
>> I WAS IN CONTROL BUT THE
RECESSION HAS DONE TERRIBLE
THINGS.
>> I NEVER HAD TO RECEIVE
CHARITY.
>> Reporter: LESS THAN TWO
MILES AWAY FROM THE BEACHES IS
THE NAPLES SENIOR CENTER.
JACKIE ESTABLISHED THE LUNCHIANS
TO GIVE OLDER
TO SOCIALIZE.
IT BECAME APPARENT HOW
DESPERATELY PEOPLE NEED THE FOOD
SERVED HERE.
>> I DID NOT THINK THAT I WOULD
FIND THE DEPTH OF THE CHALLENGES
THAT ARE FACED BY PEOPLE AND
SPECIFICALLY THE SENIORS.
WE HAVE OVER 676 MEMBERS, ABOUT
60% ARE AT, NEAR OR BELOW THE
POVERTY LINE.
>> Reporter: MANY ARE LIKE
ANGELO MAFFUCCI.
AFTER RAISING THEIR CHILDREN,
THEY SOLD THEIR SUBURBAN
NEW JERSEY HOME AND MOVED TO
SOUTHWEST FLORIDA TO ENJOY
SEMI-RETIREMENT.
BUT ANGELO COULD NO LONGER WORK
TO SUPPLEMENT THEIR SOCIAL
SECURITY INCOME AFTER INJURING
HIS BACK FOLLOWED BY PROSTATE
CANCER.
LIKE OTHERS IN THEIR GENERATION
WHO BUILT COMFORTABLE LIVES
DURI THENG HEIGHT OF AMERICAN
PROSPERITY, THE MAFFUCCIS FOUND
THEMSELVES ENTERING UNCERTAINTY
RETIREMENT.
BAD LUCK AND BAD HEALTH, THEY
LOST THEIR HOME AND HAD TO MOVE
INTO A CONDO OWNED BY THEIR SON
WHERE THEY CONTINUED TO STRUGGLE
PAYING FOR MEDICATION AND BASIC
EXPENSES.
>> AT THE TIME WHEN WE WERE ON
OUR HANDS AND KNEES,
PRACTICALLY, LET'S PUT IT THAT
WAY, AND WITH WE OPENED OUR
CLOSET AND ALL WE HAD WAS COFFEE
SO WE MADE IT AND THAT'S WHAT WE
HAD.
IF WE FOUND A SLICE OF TOAST OR
SOMETHING, WE HAD THAT, TOO.
CEREAL, ONCE IN A BLUE MOON.
>> WE DIDN'T KNOW WHERE TO GO
BECAUSE WE NEVER HAD A PROBLEM
LIKE THIS BEFORE.
WE HATED TO ASK PEOPLE FOR HELP
OR THIS OR THAT, YOU KNOW.
>> Reporter: A PLAQUE ON THEIR
HOME IS THE HARSH, DAILY
REMINDER OF THEIR GRIM FORTUNES.
THERE ARE MORE THAN 9.5 MILLION
AMERICANS OVER AGE 60 WHO
STRUGGLE TO PAY FOR FOOD.
THE PROBLEM WORSENED SINCE THE
END OF THE GREAT RECESSION AND
COLLAPSE OF THE HOUSING MARKET,
EVEN IN THE MOST UNEXPECTED
PLACES, THE MOST RECENT DATA
SHOW ONE IN SIX SENIORS FACE THE
THREAT OF HUNGER.
FROM 2001 TO 2013, THE NUMBER OF
SENIORS EXPERIENCING UNCERTAINTY
OVER WHERE THEIR FOOD WOULD COME
FROM MORE THAN DOUBLED.
IN 2013, ADDITIONAL 300,000 300
PEOPLE OVER 60 HAD DIFFICULTY
BUYING OR ACCESSING FOOD.
THE NEED FOR GOOD NUTRITION IS
VITAL FOR SENIORS.
WITHOUT IT, THEY CAN BE FRAIL
AND WEAK.
SENIORS FACE DEPRESSION, DIE
BETS, CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE
AND HEART ATOOK.
ENID IS PRESIDENT OF NATIONAL
FOUNDATION TO END SENIOR HUNGER
IN THE WASHINGTON, D.C. AREA.
>> WE'RE DOING A WORST JOB OF
TRYING TO END SENIOR HUNGER IN
AMERICA.
SO MUCH MONEY IS POURED INTO
IT YOU WOULD THINK THE NUMBERS
WOULD BE BETTER BUT THEY'RE NOT.
WE CONTINUE TO BEAT OUR HEADS
AGAINST THE WALL AND EXPECT A
DIFFERENT OUTCOME, SHAME ON US.
>> MEALS-ON-WHEELS --
>> Reporter: MEALS-ON-WHEELS
SERVE AN IMPORTANT ROLE IN MANY
COMMUNITIES LIKE THIS ONE IN
NAPLES, BUT WHILE CHARITIES
PROVIDE TEMPORARY HELP TO HUNGRY
SENIORS, THEY OFTEN HAVE WAITING
LISTS THAT IN SOME PLACES STRESM
ON FOR YEARS AND CHARITIES AND
CHURCH GROUPS CAN'T ALWAYS
ADDRESS THE UNDERLYING POVERTY
THAT AFFECTS FOOD AND SECURITY.
THERE ARE SUCCESS STORIES.
BY MOST ESTIMATES, THERE ARE
MANY MORE OLDER AMERICANS WHO
REMAIN OUT OF SIGHT.
>> THERE'S A HIDDEN PROBLEM.
IT'S A LITTLE INVISIBLE.
>> Reporter: PROFESSOR TOM
WORKED ON POVERTY RATES AMONG
SENIORS.
HE FOUND MANY POOR RETIREES ARE
LIVING IN GATED COMMUNITIES, BUT
BUBBA IT'S HAMPERING EFFORTS TO
HELP SENIORS STRUGGLING WITH
HUNGER.
>> WE DON'T KNOW THE DEPTH.
WE NEED TO ACCESS THEM.
GETTING INSIDE THE COMMUNITIES
AND LETTING PEOPLE KNOW THESE
ARE PROGRAMS THAT ARE AVAILABLE
TO YOU.
>> Reporter: HE SAYS THAT WILL
REQUIRE STEPPED-UP EFFORTS BY
GROUPS LIKE THE HARRY CHAFFIN
FOOD BANKS TO SIGN THEMEPEOPLE
UP FOR FOOD STAMPS ANDOUT NUR
TRIGGS PROGRAMS.
ONLY ONE-THIRD OF ELIGIBLE
SENIORS ARE ENROLLED IN FOOD
STAMPS, COMPARED TO
THREE-QUARTERS OF THE ELIGIBLE
GENERAL POPULATION.
>> IN SOME WAYS SENIORS ARE THE
HARDEST PEOPLE TO REACH BECAUSE
PART OF IT'S THE PRIDE, PART OF
IT'S THAT THEY DON'T HAVE THE
KNOWLEDGE OF THE SOCIAL SERVICE
SYSTEM, AND PART OF IT IS THEIR
ISOLATION.
>> Reporter: AL IS PRESIDENT
OF THE LOCAL FOOD BANK.
>> IF YOU'RE A SINGLE SENIOR
SITTING IN AN APARTMENT, YOU
DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO OR WHERE
TO GO.
SO GETTING OUT TO THEM OR
GETTING THE WORD OUT IS HALF THE
BATTLE.
ALSO REASSURING THEM THAT IT
DESERVE THIS HELP, THAT IT'S
MAKES HELPING NEIGHBORS, THAT
IT'S THE GOVERNMENT SUPPORTING
YOU IN YOUR TIME OF NEED.
>> Reporter: THE COUPLE GET
DELIVERIES FROM A LOCAL FOOD
PANTRY AND RECEIVE $34 A WEEK IN
FOOD STAMPS.
THEY'RE GRATEFUL FOR THE HELP
BUT ALSO KNOW THEIR
CIRCUMSTANCES ARE UNLIKELY TO
CHANGE.
>> WE CAN'T WORK ANYMORE, AND I
DON'T WANT TO PUT A BURDEN ON MY
CHILDREN THAT YOU HAVE TO GIVE
US EACH $100 A MONTH OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
I WOULDN'T ASK THEM FOR ANYTHING
LIKE THAT.
ALL WE COULD PRAY FOR IS WE'LL
LIVE TOGETHER.
>> Reporter: WITH MILLIONS OF
THE BABY BOOMERS HEADED TOWARD
SUNSET YEARS, THEY EXPECT THE
NUMBER OF SENIORS FACING HUNGER
WILL RISE BY 50% OVER THE NEXT
DECADE.
FOR THE PBS "NewsHour", I'M
SARAH VARNEY IN NAPLES, FLORIDA.
>>
>> Woodruff: OUR REPORTING TEAM
SPENT MORE TIME WITH SENIORS WHO
ARE STRUGGLING TO MAKE ENDS
MEET.
WE HAVE THEIR STORIES, ALONG
WITH A PHOTO ESSAY, WHICH YOU
r.N FIND ON OUR HOME PAGE,
>> Woodruff: AND NOW TO OUR LOOK
AT A FULL WEEK OF NEWS,
CULMINATING WITH THE 2016 GOP
PRESIDENTIAL CONTENDERS.
MOST OF THEM FLOCKED TO THE
SOUTHERN REPUBLICAN LEADERSHIP
CONFERENCE, MEETING IN OKLAHOMA,
AND AMONG THE MOST PROMINENT
THEMES: NATIONAL SECURITY.
IT'S TIME FOR US TO HAVE A
PRESIDENT WHO ADMITS WHAT THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE ALREADY KNOW.
WE FACE A GLOBAL STRUGGLE
AGAINST RADICAL ISLAMIC
TERRORISTS AND WE ARE IN THE
EARLY STAGES OF THIS STRUGGLE.
THE GREAT LESSON OF HISTORY FOR
US IS THAT STRENGTH AND RESOLVE
BRING PEACE AND ORDER, AND
WEAKNESS AND VACILLATION INVITE
CHAOS AND CONFLICT.
NO WONDER NOBODY AROUND THE
WORLD IS NERVOUS ABOUT AMERICA
ANYMORE, NO WONDER WE'RE NOT
INTIMIDATING OUR ADVERSARIES AND
THEY'RE RUNNING AROUND WILD IN
THE WORLD BECAUSE THEY KNOW
WE'RE NOT INVESTING IN OUR
DEFENSE ANYMORE.
WE NEED TO MAKE OR MILITARY
STRONG NOT TO WAGE WAR BUT TO
AVOID WAR AND BRING PEACE AND
STABILITY IN THE WORLD.
>> LADIES AND GENTLEMEN, WE
CAN'T HAVE A NOMINEE AGAINST
HILLARY CLINTON WHO SEES
COMMANDECOMMANDER-IN-CHIEF AS AN
ENTRY-LEVEL POSITION OR ON THE
JOB TRAINING.
GOING INTO A DEBATE, YOU DON'T
WANT TO BE ABLE TO HAVE A
CANDIDATE THAT REPRESENTS THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY WHOSE NATIONAL
SECURITY EXPERIENCE IS A
BRIEFING BOOK.
>> Woodruff: TO TALK ABOUT THAT
AND THE OTHER EVENTS OF THE
WEEK, WE TURN TO THE ANALYSIS OF
SHIELDS AND GERSON.
THAT'S SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND WASHINGTON POST
COLUMNIST MICHAEL GERSON.
DAVID BROOKS IS AWAY.
WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
SO WITH THAT CONVERSATION COMING
FROM THE REPUBLICAN CONTENDERS,
MARK, THIS IS A WEEK WHERE IKDZ
IS MAKING BIG -- ISLAMIC STATE
IS MAKING BIG GAINS.
THEY TOOK OVER A KEY CITY IN
IRAQ, RAMADI, YOU'RE HEARING
CRITICISM OF THE ADMINISTRATION
POLICY TOWARD I.S.I.S., TOWARDS
WHAT'S GOING ON IN IRAQ.
THE PRESIDENT CAME OUT THIS WEEK
AND SAID I'VE GOT A STRATEGY,
IT'S WORKING.
WHAT DO YOU THINK?
>> I THINK, JUDY, THAT,
POLITICALLY, SPEAKING
POLITICALLY RIGHT NOW, FROM TEN
YEARS FROM 2006, BASICALLY UP TO
TODAY, NINE YEARS, IRAQ HAS BEEN
A POSITIVE ISSUE FOR DEMOCRATS.
THEY WON THE CONGRESS IN 2006,
THEY NOMINATED THE ONE CANDIDATE
IN THE PARTY WHO HAD OPPOSED THE
IRAQ WAR, AND IN OPPOSITION TO
THAT IRAQ WAR AND TO PRESIDENT
BUSH'S POLICY BECAME CENTRAL IN
THE 2008 CAMPAIGN.
ROMNEY HAD TO WALK AWAY FROM HIS
SUPPORT OF IT IN 2012 AND SAID
HE WOULD NOT HAVE SUPPORTED IT,
NOW 2015 FIVE YEARS AFTER
PRESIDENT OBAMA ANNOUNCED ALL
WITHDRAWAL OF TROOPS IN IRAQ
KEEPING HIS PROMISE IN THE 2008
CAMPAIGN, WE SEE RAMADI FALL, WE
SEE IRAQI ARMY IN FULL FLIGHT
AFTER ALL THE BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS AND TRAINING, AND
DEMPSEY SAID THE IRAQI ARMY
DROVE OUT OF RAMADI, THEY
WEREN'T DRIVEN OUT.
THEY'RE NOT A PAPER TIGER,
THEY'RE A PAPER CABBIE CAT.
THAT IS THE REALITY, I.S.I.S. IS
ON THE MOVE.
I.S.I.S. IS ON THE OFFENSIVE.
POLITICALLY SPEAKING, BEYOND
ETHICS AND MORALS, DEMOCRATS ARE
STARTING TO FEEL ON THE
DEFENSIVE ON THIS ISSUE AND
REPUBLICANS ARE STARTING TO FEEL
FREE OF WHAT HAD BEEN AN
ENORMOUS BURDEN.
>> Woodruff: SOUNDS LIKE HE
THINKS IT'S NOT WORKING.
>> WELL, THIS WAS A SERIOUS
ENEMY VICTOR IN THIS WAR.
THE CAPITAL OF ANBAR, THEY
CONTROL 60% OF THE PROVINCE,
ADVANCES IN SYRIA AT THE SAME
TIME.
THIS IS GOOD FOR TERRORIST
PROPAGANDA AND REVIEWEDMENT.
AN UNMAIMED MEMBER OF THE
ADMINISTRATION SAID THEY WERE
SHOCKED BY WHAT HAPPENED HERE.
IT WAS SHOCKING TO HEAR
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S FORMER
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, ROBERT
GATES, SAY WE DON'T HAVE A
STRATEGY AT ALL.
NOW, I'M NOT SURE OF THAT.
THE PRESIDENT DID ANNOUNCE A
STRATEGY IN SEPTEMBER, WHICH
INVOLVED ARMING AND PREPARING
OUR PROXIES INCLUDING SUNNI
PROXIES, INVOLVED AGGRESSIVE
NEGOTIATION FORCE A NATIONAL
UNIT GOVERNMENT, THAT INVOLVED,
YOU KNOW, BOMBING THE HECK OUT
OF I.S.I.S.
THE FIRST TWO OF THOSE WERE NOT
DONE EFFECTIVELY, NOT DONE
AGGRESSIVELY.
SO WE COULD ACTUALLY START THIS
POLICY DISCUSSION BY SAYING THE
PRESIDENT COULD GO AND ENFORCE
HIS OWN POLICY MORE AGGRESSIVELY
IN THIS BATTLE.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT ABOUT
THE CRITIQUES YOU'RE HEARING
FROM THE REPUBLICANS AS, MARK,
YOU SAY YOU'RE HEARING IT FROM
DEMOCRATS, TOO.
WHO HAS THE RIGHT ANSWER HERE?
>> I DON'T THINK ANYBODY HAS THE
RIGHT ANSWER.
I LISTENED TO RICK PERRY AND
RICK SANTORUM WHO IS BASICALLY
CONTRASTING HIMSELF WITH THE
GOVERNORS.
IT WAS NOT CONVINCING.
CHRIS CHRISTIE, WHO HAS HIS OWN
PROBLEMS IN NEW JERSEY -- I
MEAN, IT COMES DOWN TO WHAT IS
THE ACTION STATEMENT?
RICK PERRY ONCE SAID BOOTS ON
THE GROUND, OTHER REPUBLICANS
SAID THEY WANT BOOTS ON THE
GROUND BUT THEY SHOULD BE ARAB
BOOTS, NOT NECESSARILY AMERICAN.
I HAVEN'T SEEN PEOPLE LINING UP
TO JOIN THIS FIGHT.
I MEAN, IN A PROXY WAR, YOU ARE
DEPENDENT UPON YOUR PROXIES, AND
THE IRAQIS TURN OUT TO BE NOT
PARTICULARLY ENGAGED, DIVIDED,
NOT UNIFIED, NOT COMMITTED THE
SAME WAY.
JUDY, WHEN ONE TO HAV -- WHEN OF
THE DEFENSEs ALL THE EQUIPMENT
AND MONEY WE'VE GIVEN TO THE
ENEMY, ONE OF THE EXPRESSIONs
DON'T WORRY ABOUT IT TOO MUCH
BECAUSE THEY WERE IN SUCH ILL
REPAIR, THE IRAQIS HAVE TAKEN
SUCH BAD CARE THAT THEY WOULD BE
OF USE.
THERE'S NO ACTION STATEMENT WITH
SOMEBODY SAYING I HAVE THE
ANSWER.
>> Woodruff: GET TOUGH.
GET TOUGH, SWAGGER.
10,000 TROOPS SENATOR LINDSEY
GRAHAM WANTS TO PUT IN.
GEORGE PA TACKY SAID PUT IN AS
MANY AS YOU NEED, KILL EVERYBODY
YOU CAN AND GET OUT.
NOW, GET OUT WAS THE QUESTION
AND REMAINS THE DILEMMA TO THIS
MOMENT.
>> Woodruff: YOU SAID THE
ADMINISTRATION HASN'T FOLLOWED
THROUGH ON WHAT IT SAID ITS
POLICY IS, BUT WHO DOES THE
ADMINISTRATION TURN TO AT THIS
POINT?
>> WELL, I THINK THERE'S A LOT
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT THEIRU3
INTENTION IN THIS.
A LOT OF PROBLEM IS THE
PRESIDENT SAID A SERIES OF
STATEMENTS.
HE SAID ASSAD MUST GO.
HE SAID THERE IS A CHEMICAL
WEAPONS RED LINE.
HE SAID WE'RE GOING TO DEGRADE
AND DESTROY I.S.I.S.
AND NOW A DEBATE WITHIN THE
ADMINISTRATION, WELL, MAYBE THEY
SHOULD BE CONTAINED, MAYBE WE C.
SO I THINK THERE IS A REAL
QUESTION, WHAT'S THE PRESIDENT'S
GOAL, IS HE WILLING TO MASM
MEANS WITH ENDS, SOME INVOLVING
EMBEDDING OF U.S. FORCES IN OUR
PROXIES DOWN TO BRIGADE LEVEL
WHICH IS NOT TRUE NOW.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT WILL BE
DECISIVE BUT I THINK THERE ARE
MEASURES TO TAKE IN A PROXY WAR
WHERE YOU CAN BE MORE AGGRESSIVE
AND I THINK THE PRESIDENT WILL
NEED TO BE.
>> I MIGHT ARGUE WITH GENERAL
GERSON ON THIS, BUT I WILL SAY
THERE ARE 250,000 IRAQI TROOPS.
THERE ARE UP TO 31,000 I.S.I.S.
TROOPS.
YOU HAVE FULL FLIGHT.
I MEAN, THEY WON'T AND HAVEN'T
BEEN ENGAGED.
THE IDEA OF EMBEDDING OR
TRAINING, WHATEVER ELSE -- I
THINK WE HAVE TO CONFRONT THE
FACT THIS IS A DISASTER.
WE CAN GO BACK TO WHOM HIT WHOM
FIRST, BUT THE REALITY WAS THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES,
12 YEARS AGO, ANNOUNCED THE
MISSION WAS ACCOMPLISHED, THE
UNITED STATES AND ALLIES
PREVAILED, THAT THE WAR IN IRAQ
WAS OVER.
YOU KNOW, THAT WAS NOT THE CASE.
JUDY, ANYBODY WHO WALKS AROUND
WITH A FLAG PIN IN HIS LAPEL NOW
RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT AND
CONGRESS AND SAYS LET'S GO IN
AND KICK SOME TAIL AND TAKE SOME
NUMBERS AND BOMB SOME PEOPLE,
THAT TAKES NO COURAGE AT ALL
BECAUSE IT'S NOT THEIR BLOOD OR
THEIR CHILDREN'S BLOOD THEY'RE
TALKING ABOUT.
QUITE FRANKLY, TALK IS CHEAP AND
WE'LL HEAR A LOT IN THE
FORTHCOMING WEEKS.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE HEARING
THIS IS CONNECTED IN A WAY WITH
THE PATRIOT ACT.
MIKE DEBONIS WITH THE
"WASHINGTON POST" WAS ON THE
PROGRAM AND YOU HEARD IT
EARLIER.
YOU HAVE A SITUATION WHERE THE
REPUBLICANS ARE DIVIDED, THE
HOUSE AND SENATE IS DIVIDED.
DO YOU SEE A WAY THROUGH THIS?
IS THERE A CLEAR ANSWER THAT IS
GOING TO SATISFY BOTH SIDES?
>> I DOUBT THAT AND I THINK IT'S
IMPORTANT TO STATE RAND PAUL IS
SUBSTANTIVELY LONG ON THIS
ISSUE.
THE N.S.A. IS NOT LOOKING
THROUGH PEOPLE'S ADDRESS BOOKS
AND VISA BILLS AND VIOLATING TH.
THAT'S NOT WHAT THE N.S.A. DOES.
I THINK THAT YOU HAVE TO START
BY SAYING, LOOK, THAT'S NOT A
RISK.
THERE ARE A LOT OF GUARANTEES
BUILT IN, COURTS AND OTHERS THAT
ARE LOOKING OVER THE SHOULDER OF
THE N.S.A. ON THIS.
I THINK PAUL HAS LEARNED SOME
CONTEMPT FROM HIS FELLOW
SENATORS BY USING A NATIONAL
SECURITY DEBATE AS A FUNDRAISING
TOOL RELATED TO HIS BROADER
EFFORTS.
SO I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU SPLIT
THE DIFFERENCE ON A DEBATE WHERE
THERE'S A SUBSTANTIVE DIFFERENCE
IN WHAT'S HAPPENING.
>> WE TALK ABOUT THE LACK OF
CONSENSUS COMPROMISE AS THE
HOUSE CAME UP WITH THE U.S.A.
FREEDOM ACT THEY PASSED WITH
ONLY 88 VOTES AGAINST IT,
COALITION OF DEMOCRATS AND
REPUBLICANS, AND THIS IS AS MIKE
DEBONIS SAID IN HIS INTERVIEW
WITH YOU, JUDY, IT'S A FIGHT
BETWEEN SPEAKER BOEHNER AND
SENATOR MCCONNELL.
IT REALLY IS, AS FAR AS SENATOR
PAUL, FEINGOLD WAS THE ONLY VOTE
AGAINST IN 2001.
THE COURTS HAVE JUST BEEN A
STAMP --
(TALKING AT THE SAME TIME)
>> THEORIES REAL QUESTIONS AND
REAL BOUTS AND YOU THINK THE
U.S.A. FREEDOM ACT WENT A LONG
WAY TOWARD RESOLVING THOSE WITH
PEOPLE IN GOOD FAITH ON BOTH
SIDES.
RAND PAUL IS NOT THE FIRST
PERSON IN THE HISTORY OF THE
UNITED STATES TO RAISE MONEY ON
A NATIONAL SECURITY ISSUE.
I MEAN, THAT HAS BEEN A FAIRLY
COMMON PRACTICE AMONG
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES.
>> Woodruff: ONE OTHER THING
THAT CAME UP THIS WEEK, AT THE
INTERSECTION OF POLITICS AND
NATIONAL SECURITY, IS HILLARY
CLINTON AND THE E-MAILS.
WE HAVE BEEN HEARING ABOUT IT
FOR SOME TIME.
COURT SAID THEY HAVE TO BE
RELEASED.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT SAID WE
CAN'T GET IT DONE TILL JANUARY.
SHE CAME OUT AND TALKED TO THE
PRESS AND SAID, NO, THEY'VE GOT
TO COME OUT AND ARE NOW STARTING
TO COME OUT.
WE'RE SEEING SHE WAS GETTING
ADVICE ON WHAT TO DO ABOUT
BENGHAZI.
IS SHE HURT BY THIS?
>> THIS ATTEMPT AT TRANSPARENCY
COMES AFTER THE DESTRUCTION OF
30,000 E-MAILS ON A PRIVATE
SERVER THAT SHE KEPT AND, SO, I
THINK THE EFFORT AT TRANSPARENCY
ITSELF IS TRANSPARENT.
SO, YOU KNOW -- AND ALSO THE
TIES TO SIDNEY BLUMENTHAL IN RAT
JUDGMENT.
SO I THINK THERE ARE A BUNCH OF
QUESTIONS RAISED HERE.
>> THE E-MAILS OF SECRETARY
CLINTON, JUDY, ARE -- NOT IN A
MORAL SENSE BUT A JOURNALISTIC
SENSE -- LIKE THE NIXON CASE.
THE GIFT THAT KEEPS ON GIVING.
A NEW STORY AND NEW STORY.
TO SOME DEGREE TO USE THE PROXY
ANSWER, THE PRESS HAS BECOME THE
PROXY FOR THE OPPOSITION TO
HILLARY CLINTON.
>> Woodruff: BECAUSE THEY'RE
ASKING SO MANY QUESTIONS.
>> WITH ALL BUT RESPECT TO
SENATOR SANDERS AND GOVERNOR
O'MALLEY, THE MOST FORMIDABLE
ADVERSARY SHE HAS IS THE PRESS
AND THE CLINTONS SECRETNESS IS
PART OF THE NARRATIVE.
I WOULD BE INTERESTED TO SEE
EVERYBODY'S E-MAILS ON THE TABLE
BEFORE THIS IS OVER.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE GOVERNOR
CHRISTIE'S BUSH'S, ESHED'S
EMAILS.
I HOPE WE'LL HOLD EVERYBODY TO
THE SAME STANDARD.
>> Woodruff: WE'RE GOING TO
LEAVE IT THERE.
MARK SHIELDS, MICHAEL GERSON,
THANK YOU BOTH.
HAVE A GOOD MEMORIAL DAY
WEEKEND.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: HARI SREENIVASAN IS
BACK WITH A REPORT ON ONE OF A
HANDFUL OF PROGRAMS IN THE
COUNTRY THAT'S HELPING HOMELESS
TRANSGENDER YOUTH GET THEIR
FOOTING IN SOCIETY.
IT'S ANOTHER IN OUR "TRANSGENDER
IN AMERICA" SERIES.
>> Sreenivasan: IT LOOKS LIKE
ANY OTHER ROW HOUSE IN
WASHINGTON D.C.
BUT RUBY CORADO'S HOUSE IS
DIFFERENT.
IT'S A SAFE HAVEN FOR LESBIAN,
GAY, BISEXUAL AND TRANSGENDER
YOUTH WHO HAVE NOWHERE ELSE TO
GO.
>> Sreenivasan: 15, 20 YEARS
AGO, IF YOU WERE TRANS, YOU WERE
LIVING IN A HOUSE, YOU WALKED
OUT ON A STOOP LIKE THIS AND
SOME KIDS WERE WALKING BY,
WHAT'S THE LIKELY REACTION THEN
VERSUS NOW?
>> 15 YEARS AGO, IT WAS
IMPOSSIBLE TO BE ME DURING THE
DAY.
WE WERE SEGREGATED TO THE
UNDERGROUND WORLD.
TODAY, WE CAN BE TRANS IN THE
ENTIRE CITY.
IT'S STILL HARD, BUT WE CAN
STILL BE OURSELVES.
AND WE TAKE THOSE RISKS, BECAUSE
DEEP INSIDE OURSELVES, WE ARE
HAPPY.
>> Sreenivasan: CREATING
HAPPINESS IS ALL-IMPORTANT TO
CORADO, AS SHE SHOWED US ON THE
GRAND TOUR.
>> THE FIRST THING THAT WELCOMES
YOU IS THE RAINBOW.
WE HAVE CHANDELIERS, SO THAT
MEANS THERE'S PLENTY OF LIGHT.
AND WHEN YOU GO UP, YOU WILL SEE
A LOT OF GLITTER.
>> Sreenivasan: SO, YOU'VE GOT
TO HAVE A GAY FLAG, A
CHANDELIER, AND LOTS OF GLITTER?
>> YES.
AND YOU HAVE TO HAVE LOTS OF
COLORS.
>> Sreenivasan: GOT IT.
SHE'S OPENING THIS GROUP HOME UP
TO TEN PEOPLE, WITH THE HELP OF
A $350,000 GRANT FROM A D.C.
NON-PROFIT-- AND TRYING TO MAKE
IT SAFE, INVITING AND INFUSED
WITH FUN.
>> Sreenivasan: WE'VE GOT A
CHAIR SHAPED LIKE A HIGH HEEL
SHOE?
>> DIVA.
DIVAS CAN LIVE IN THIS HOUSE.
>> Sreenivasan: SO, YOU'D HAVE A
ROOMMATE WHEN YOU LIVE HERE?
>> YES.
SO IN EACH ROOM, IN SOME ROOMS
THERE'S SPACE FOR THREE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE YOUNG PEOPLE
WHO QUALIFY TO LIVE HERE RANGE
FROM 18 TO 24 YEARS OLD, AND CAN
STAY FOR UP TO A YEAR AND A
HALF.
MANY HAVE BEEN KICKED OUT BY
THEIR FAMILIES FOR BEING
DIFFERENT.
RUBY CORADO, WHO IS TRANSGENDER
HERSELF, KNOWS FIRSTHAND.
>> WE GROW UP IN HOMES WHERE
THERE IS NO UNDERSTANDING OF
WHAT TRANSGENDER IS.
AND THE ONLY INFORMATION THAT IS
OUT THERE IS THAT IT'S NOT GOOD.
SO THEREFORE THAT INFORMATION
BASICALLY PAINTS A PICTURE THAT
WE'RE NOT GOOD, THAT THERE'S
SOMETHING WRONG, AND MANY
PARENTS DON'T WANT SOMETHING
WRONG IN THEIR HOMES SO THEY
JUST GET RID OF THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: CORADO IS TRYING
TO BUILD THEM A NEW FAMILY.
FOR SOME PEOPLE, THIS MATTRESS
IS THE MOST COMFORTABLE THING
THEY'VE HAD SINCE THEIR LIFE ON
THE STREETS.
>> AND LIKE I TOLD THEM, THIS IS
GONNA BE THEIRS.
IF THEY DO GOOD, OBVIOUSLY THEY
CAN TAKE IT WITH THEM, BECAUSE
IT'S THEIRS.
IT'S THERE WHEN THEY BUILD THEIR
DREAMS.
BECAUSE I WANT THEM TO DREAM.
AND IF THIS IS THE PLACE WHERE
THEY DREAM, THERE WERE TIMES
WHEN I WAS LIVING IN A SHELTER
WHERE I HAVE SO MANY DREAMS, AND
I COULDN'T TAKE THE MATTRESS.
SO I WANT THEM TO KNOW THIS IS
THEIRS.
I'LL BUY ANOTHER ONE.
I DON'T WANT THIS TO JUST BE A
SHELTER.
I WANT THIS TO BE A HOME WHERE
PINK IS OKAY, WHERE RED IS OKAY,
WHERE LIGHT, I DON'T WANT THEM
TO LIVE IN THE DARK.
>> Sreenivasan: LIFE IN THE
STREETS IS REALITY FOR THE 1.6
MILLION HOMELESS YOUTH IN THE
UNITED STATES-- AND OF THAT
NUMBER AN ESTIMATED 20 TO 40
PERCENT ARE L.G.B.T. AND THE
NATIONAL CENTER FOR TRANSGENDER
EQUALITY SAYS ONE IN FIVE
TRANSGENDER PEOPLE HAS BEEN
HOMELESS AT SOME POINT IN THEIR
LIFE.
>> PEOPLE ARE GOING TO SAY THERE
ARE SHELTERS AROUND IF YOU'RE
HOMELESS, WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE
IF YOU'RE TRANSGENDER AND YOU GO
TO A HOMELESS SHELTER?
>> FOR THE MOST PART WE'RE TOLD
FROM THE GET GO WE DO NOT
QUALIFY.
FOR EXAMPLE, IF SOMEONE TRIES TO
GO TO A FEMALE SHELTER AS A
TRANS WOMAN THEY LITERALLY TELL
YOU YOU CAN'T SLEEP THERE
BECAUSE YOU'RE NOT FEMALE AND
THEN WHEN YOU GO TO THE MALE
SHELTER THEY DO TAKE YOU BUT
AGAIN THEY PUT YOU IN DANGEROUS
CONDITIONS WHERE YOU DON'T WANT
TO GO TO THE SHELTER.
THAT IS WHY YOU END UP ON THE
STREETS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT KINDS OF
PEOPLE ARE COMING TO NEED YOUR
SERVICES?
>> VERY OFTEN IF THEY ARE REALLY
YOUNG, THEY COME IN BECAUSE
THEIR PARENTS ARE KICKING THEM
OUT OF THE HOMES.
IF THEY'RE A LITTLE OLDER,
THEY'RE LIKE 16 THROUGH 21, 22
THEY GET REFERRED TO ME BY THE
CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM WHERE
THEY TELL THEM ALL DON'T COME
BACK WITH ISSUES.
IF YOU COME BACK TO COURT YOU
KNOW I'LL PUT YOU IN JAIL BUT GO
TO RUBY AND SHE WILL TAKE CARE
OF YOU.
AND YOU KNOW, IT'S KIND OF WEIRD
BECAUSE I KNOW THEIR FAMILIES,
SOCIETY IS TURNING THEIR BACK ON
THEM BUT TO ME IT'S MY TREASURE.
I SEE THEM WALKING IN THE DOOR I
HAVE A GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO HELP
SOMEONE LIKE ME SO THEY DON'T
HAVE TO GO THROUGH WHAT I WENT
THROUGH.
>> Sreenivasan: GISELLE HARTZOG
IS ONE OF THE FIRST TRANSGENDER
RESIDENTS TO LIVE HERE-- AFTER
LEAVING HER HOME IN GULFPORT,
MISSISSIPPI AND TURNING TO
PROSTITUTION.
YOU'D SLEEP AT THE TRAIN
STATION?
>> M-HM.
AT UNION STATION SO THEY WAKE US
UP AND TELL US YOU CAN'T SLEEP
HERE.
OR SOMETHING AND THEN SOMETIMES
YOU'D BE JUST SO LUCKY TO CATCH
A BUS THAT PICK UP THE PEOPLE AT
GO TO A SHELTER FOR A NIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: THESE ARE PRETTY
NICE MATTRESSES COMPARED TO THE
BENCH AT UNION STATION.
HOW DOES THAT CHANGE THINGS?
>> IT CHANGES A LOT OF THINGS
BECAUSE YOU CAN JUST, I MEAN, I
HAVE SOMETHING TO LOOK FORWARD
TO.
>> Sreenivasan: DO YOU FEEL SAFE
HERE?
>> M-HM.
>> Sreenivasan: COMPARED TO
WHERE YOU'VE BEEN STAYING?
>> A LOT SAFER.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW SO?
>> JUST IN THE SIMPLE FACT, I
MEAN, I HAVE SOMEWHERE TO CALL
MY OWN.
JUST THAT SECURITY.
>> I WISH I HAD MORE TO GIVE
THEM, I WISH I HAD 20 HOUSES TO
PUT EVERYONE IN AND I WISH I
COULD BUILD MY OWN LITTLE WORLD
MY OWN LITTLE NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE
IT WOULD BE OKAY TO BE AND AS I
WORK ON THAT I DO KNOW THAT FOR
THOSE THAT MAKE IT HERE I CAN
LOVE THEM AND IN THE PROCESS I
CAN MAKE IT EASIER FOR THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU MENTIONED
YOU'D LOVE TO CREATE YOUR OWN
LITTLE WORLD, BUT THE REALITY IS
THERE'S THIS OTHER ONE ALREADY
HERE SO WHILE THEY MIGHT HAVE
THAT NURTURING AND SUPPORT IN
THESE WALLS THEY WALK OUT IN THE
STREET.
>> I SEE A DIFFERENT WORLD
TODAY.
THERE ARE PEOPLE IN THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD WHO KNOW WHO WE ARE
AND THEY LOOK AT US AND THEY
RESPECT US.
WE'RE NOT BEING DEHUMANIZED.
SO I THINK THAT STABILITY IS
IMPORTANT.
BEING ABLE TO SHOW THE WORLD
WHAT IS WRONG.
BECAUSE IF THEY DON'T KNOW
THEY'RE DOING SOMETHING WRONG
THEY CAN'T CHANGE WHAT THEY
DON'T KNOW.
>> Sreenivasan: CORADO SAYS SHE
HAS MORE APPLICANTS THAN BEDS
AND THE HOUSE IS ALREADY FULL.
IN WASHINGTON, FOR THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT, IT'S
COMMENCEMENT SEASON AND THAT
MEANS GRADUATES, THEIR FAMILIES
AND FRIENDS ARE HEARING A LOT OF
SPEECHES.
MANY UNIVERSITIES BOOK HIGH
PROFILE ALUMNI OR BIG NAMES TO
MARK THE OCCASION.
HERE ARE A FEW FUNNY MOMENTS
FROM SOME OF 2015'S GRADUATIONS.
WELL, WELL, WELL...
HERE WE ARE.
LOOK AT ALL THESE BEAUTIFUL
FACES AND iPhoneS.
>> BEFORE I BEGIN TODAY, THEY
ASKED ME TO MAKE A STANDARD
ANNOUNCEMENT.
YOU'VE HEARD THIS BEFORE, ABOUT
SILENCING YOUR PHONES.
SO THOSE OF YOU WITH AN
IPhone, JUST PLACE IT IN
SILENT MODE.
IF YOU DON'T HAVE AN iPhone,
PLEASE PASS IT TO THE CENTER
AISLE.
APPLE HAS A WORLD-CLASS
RECYCLING PROGRAM.
(LAUGHTER)
>> IT'S A PLEASURE TO BE
ADDRESSING THE WAKE FOREST
GRADUATING CLASS OF 2015.
I WANT TO START BY THANKING THE
ADMINISTRATION AND THE TRUSTEES
FOR INVITING ME TO SPEAK.
I WANT TO THANK THEM FOR GIVING
ME AN HONORARY DOCTORATE OF
HUMANITIES.
I'M A HUGE FAN OF HUMANS.
(LAUGHTER)
OF COURSE, FOR YOU GRADS, THE
FUTURE IS A DARK CHASM OF
YAWNING UNCERTAINTY.
(LAUGHTER)
BUT DON'T WORRY -- YOU DON'T
HAVE TO FACE THE FUTURE FOR,
LIKE, TWO HOURS.
FIRST BRUNCH, THEN YAWNING
UNCERTAINTY.
(LAUGHTER)
IN THE LATE 19th CENTURY, THIS
WAS AMONG THE FIRST SOUTHERN
SCHOOLS TO TEACH BLOLG IN A LAB.
BEFORE THEN, YOU WEREN'T
SUPPOSED TO LEARN BIOLOGY UNTIL
MARRIAGE.
(LAUGHTER)
IN 1962, WAKE FOREST HAD THE
PROUD DISTINCTION OF BEING THE
SOUTH'S FIRST MAJOR PRIVATE
SCHOOL TO INTEGRATE -- AND, YES,
THEY'VE KEPT IT UP.
ALL RIGHT.
(LAUGHTER)
>> IT HAD BEEN MY INTENTION THIS
MORNING TO PARCEL OUT SOME GOOD
AT VICE AT THE END OF THESE --
GOOD ADVICE AT THE END OF THESE
REMARKS, THE GOODNESS OF THAT
BEING SUBJECTIVE IN THE EXTREME.
BUT THEN I REALIZED THIS IS THE
LAND OF MARK TWAIN AND CAME TO
THE CONCLUSION ANY COMMENTARY
TODAY OUGHT TO BE FRAMED IN THE
SUE BLIEB SHADOW OF THIS QUOTE
OF HIS -- "IT'S NOT THAT THE
WORLD IS FILLED WITH FOOLS, IT'S
JUST THAT LIGHTNING ISN'T
DISTRIBUTED RIGHT ."
(LAUGHTER)
>> THOSE OF YOU GRADUATING WITH
HIGH HONORS, AWARDS AND
DISTINCTIONS, I SAY WELL DONE.
AND AS I LIKE TO TELL THE C
STUDENTS, YOU, TOO, CAN BE
PRESIDENT.
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
>> Woodruff: NOW, TO OUR
NEWSHOUR SHARES OF THE DAY.
SOMETHING THAT CAUGHT OUR EYE
THAT MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO
YOU.
THE NEW SHIMMERING WORLD TRADE
CENTER SCRAPES THE SKY FROM ITS
COMMANDING POSITION IN LOWER
MANHATTAN AND NEAR ITS TOP, HIGH
OVER NEW YORK, IS THE THREE-
STORY OBSERVATORY, WITH AWESOME
AND SERENE VIEWS, THAT SOMEHOW
QUIET THE ROARING CITY A
QUARTER-MILE BELOW.
BUT IT IS THE JOURNEY TO THAT
HIGH PERCH THAT WE THOUGHT YOU
SHOULD SEE.
FIVE SPECIAL ELEVATORS MAKE THE
102-FLOOR JOURNEY IN 47 SECONDS
AND IT IS, IN PART, A JOURNEY
five CENTURIES IN THE MAKING.
NINE HIGH-DEFINITION MONITORS,
EACH SIX-AND-A-HALF FEET ACROSS,
DISPLAY THE HISTORY OF NEW YORK
FROM THE YEAR 1500 ON.
TART BELOW GROUND, IN BEDROCK
MARSHY LOWLANDS APPEAR JUST
ABOVE GROUND.
THEN, THE FIRST EUROPEAN
SETTLEMENT, NEW AMSTERDAM, IN
THE 1600'S.
SOON THE SPIRE OF ST. PAUL'S
CHAPEL, THAT STILL SITS TO THE
EAST OF THE TOWER, APPEARS FROM
THE LATE 1760S YOU ARE NOW 250
FEET ABOVE GROUND ON THE RIDE
AND THEN FOR A BREATH TAKING
FOUR SECONDS, THE WORLD TRADE
CENTER TOWERS ERECTED IN THE
EARLY '70s AND DESTROYED
SEPTEMBER 11, 2001.
THE OLD TOWERS HAD TO APPEAR BUT
THEIR DEPICTION SPARKED MUCH
HEARTFELT DEBATE.
>> WE THOUGHT THE MOST
RESPECTFUL WAY TO TREAT THE OLD
TWIN TOWERS WAS TO DECEMBER PLAY
THEM IN THE APPROPRIATE TIME
WHEN THEY EXISTED.
SO AS YOU SAW WHEN YOU CAME UP
THEY APPEAR SUDDENLY AND
DISAPPEARS QUICKLY AS WELL.
>> THEN THE NEW TOWER APPEARS AS
THE ELEVATOR RISES AND STOPS.
>> BREATH TAKING.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE SENATE STRUGGLED TO END AN
IMPASSE ON RENEWING KEY
SURVEILLANCE PROVISIONS IN THE
PATRIOT ACT.
MAJOR TRADE LEGISLATION WAS ALSO
AWAITING ACTION, WITH THE
MEMORIAL DAY RECESS BEARING
DOWN.
THE STATE DEPARTMENT RELEASED
300 E-MAILS FROM THEN SECRETARY
HILLARY CLINTON.
ON T 20HE12 ATTACK IN BENGHAZI,
LIBYA.
THE F.B.I. ASKED PARTS OF ONE BE
LABELED SECRET AND WITHHELD.
ON THE "NewsHour" ONLINE,
Pac-MAN TURNS 35 TODAY.
WE COMPILED EIGHT FACTS YOU
PROBABLY DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT THE
TOTALLY '80s VIDEO GAME.
AND ITS FEMININE VERSION, MS.
PAC-MAN.
FIND THOSE, ON OUR HOME PAGE,
pbs.org/newshour.
AND A REMINDER ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING PROGRAMS FROM OUR PBS
COLLEAGUES.
GWEN IFILL IS PREPARING FOR
"WASHINGTON WEEK," WHICH AIRS
LATER THIS EVENING, HERE'S A
PREVIEW.
>> Ifill: REAPING THE WHIRLWIND:
ON CAPITOL HILL, ON THE
CAMPAIGN, AND IN THE MIDDLE
EAST.
EVERYTHING'S OFF BALANCE.
WE EXPLORE HOW WE GOT HERE, AND
THE NEXT STEPS, TONIGHT ON
WASHINGTON WEEK.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND SATURDAY, A LOOK AT THE
SAFETY CONCERNS SURROUNDING THE
TRANSPORT OF OIL ACROSS THE
COUNTRY BY RAIL.
>> IT WAS JUST AFTER 2:00 P.M.
ON DECEMBER 30th, 2013, WHEN
THE CALLS BEGAN STREAMING IN.
>> WHAT'S GOING ON?
THERE WAS A TRAIN THAT
DERAILED.
>> TWO TRAINS COLLIDED JUST HALF
A MILE OUTSIDE CASSILLTON,
NORTH DAKOTA.
ONE LOADED WITH GRAIN, THE OTHER
WITH CRUDE OIL.
>> WHAT DID IT TELL YOU ABOUT
WHAT'S GOING ON ON THE RAILS
HERE IN NORTH DAKOTA?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, IT TELLS ME
AND I THINK EVERYBODY THE
SAME -- WHAT IF THAT HAPPENED IN
A CITY OR EVEN IN THE MIDDLE OF
A TOWN?
YOU KNOW, IT COULD BE REALLY
CATASTROPHIC.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S TOMORROW
NIGHT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
AND WE'LL BE BACK, RIGHT HERE,
ON MONDAY, MEMORIAL DAY.
WITH A LOOK AT AMERICA'S LONGEST
WAR, THE FIGHT AGAIT THNSE
TALIBAN IN AFGHANISTAN.
THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.